---
title: CS 380 Homework #8
---

<div id="header">

| **CS 380 Homework #8**
| Prof. Richard Eisenberg
| Spring 2017
|
| Due date: Wednesday, April 12, 2017

</div>

Halgebra 2.0
------------

This week's assignment is to update your computer algebra solver from
Homework #3 to use GADTs to eliminate the need for `error`. This is
done by adding a new Step 0 to the procedure that you followed in
Homework #3: convert the `Equation` to the new `LEquation` type that
allows only *linear* equations. The type is declared in the `LArith`
module I have provided.

Here are the relevant modules:

 * [Parser.hs](Parser.hs)
 * [Arith.hs](Arith.hs)
 * [LArith.hs](LArith.hs)
 * [Halgebra.hs](Halgebra.hs)  (this is where the work is)
 * [Main.hs](Main.hs)

The bundle of modules includes a `Main` module. This is not part of
the assignment, but using it, you can say `ghc Main` at the command-line,
and GHC will build an executable `Main` for you that you can use to
solve equations.

If it's helpful, the solution to the last Halgebra assignment is on Moodle.

Portfolio guidelines
--------------------
 
Here is the breakdown of the functions you have been asked to write for your
type-level portfolio:

 * Functions that work straightforwardly on `Vec` (`and`, `or`, `any`, `map`,
   `unzip`, `insert`, `sort`,
   `foldl`, `foldr`, `scanl`, `scanr`, `mapAccumL`, `mapAccumR`): 13

 * Functions that are partial on lists but can be made total on `Vec`s (`last`,
   `uncons`, `foldl1`, `foldr1`, `scanl1`, `scanr1`): 6

 * Functions that require some type families or other type-level twists (`init`,
   `stripPrefix`): 2

 * Functions that require interacting with singletons (`null`, `length`,
   `take`, `drop`, `replicate`, `splitAt`): 6

 * Proofs of reasonable difficulty (commutativity of `+`, associativity of `+`): 2

 * Proofs of unreasonable difficulty (commutativity of `*`): 1

 * `VecList` functions of reasonable difficulty (`intersperse`): 1

 * `VecList` functions of unreasonable difficulty (`inits`, `tails`, `intercalate`,
    `subsequences`, `permutations`, `transpose`): 6

 * `EVec` functions (`concatMap`, `unfoldr`, `takeWhile`, `dropWhile`, `dropWhileEnd`,
    `filter`, `nub`, `delete`, `(\\)`, `union`, `intersect`): 11

 * `Fin` functions (`(!!)`, `elemIndex`, `elemIndices`, `findIndex`, `findIndices`): 5

 * Functions for which you need to write your own GADT (`span`, `break`, `partition`,
   `group`): 4

 * The Halgebra solver: one big problem.

This adds up to:

  * 46 functions of reasonable difficulty (1 pt each)
  * 4 where you have to write a GADT (2 pts each)
  * 7 of unreasonable difficulty (5 pts each)
  * and Halgebra (10 pts)
 
The total here is 99 points, but the goal isn't to get to 100. Throwing out the
unreasonable problems gives us 64. Arriving at a power of 2 at this point is
auspicious. (It certainly wasn't planned!) Here are the point values and how much,
roughly, they are worth on the 4.0-point scale:

 * 50+ pts: 4.0
 * 40+ pts, including at least 1 custom-GADT question *or* Halgebra: 3.7
 * 40+ pts, otherwise: 3.3
 * 35+ pts: 3.0
 * 30+ pts: 2.7
 * 25+ pts: 2.3
 * 20+ pts: 2.0

As always, do let me know if you have any questions.

