---
title: CS 380 Homework #6
---

<div id="header">

| **CS 380 Homework #6**
| Prof. Richard Eisenberg
| Spring 2017
|
| Suggested due date: Wednesday, March 29, 2017

</div>

1. Write proofs of the following facts in Haskell, along the lines of
the [Proofs lecture notes](../15/Proofs.html).

    a. The type family `+` is commutative.
    b. The type family `+` is associative.
    c. The type family `*` (as defined in the [VecList lecture notes](../15/VecList.html)) is commutative.

2. Write the following functions, also adapted from their [list](https://www.stackage.org/haddock/lts-8.5/base-4.9.1.0/GHC-OldList.html) versions.

    You will need [`VecList`](../15/VecList.html) for most of these.

    Also, for reasons we have not yet had the chance to discuss, type families
do not participate in currying. You thus cannot cleverly write the `Map` type
family and expect to say `Map (+ 3) ...`. It won't work. You *can* say `Map
Succ ...` because `Succ` is not a type family. This might mean you have to
write a few type families for the following problems that you would ordinarily
get by using higher-order functions and currying.

    Lastly, these are quite a big step harder than the problems you have already worked on. Other than
    `intersperse` (which is hard, but not like the others), view these as challenge problems. Enjoy
    the challenge. If you're not enjoying it, stop. `:)`

    a. `intersperse`
    b. `inits` (You will need several new type families for this one. Write it on lists first as a warmup.)
    c. `tails` (Ditto.)
    d. `intercalate` (I found this to be pretty hard.)
    e. `subsequences` (I have not tried this one myself. It looks hard, but doable.)
    f. `permutations` (I have not tried this one myself. It looks hard, but doable.)
    g. `transpose` (Thinking about this makes me want to cry. But maybe you will enjoy it as a challenge problem.)

    
